C Type Personality Styles, based on DISC Theory by Dr. Marston, are accurate, precise, detail-oriented, and conscientious. They think analytically and systematically, and carefully make decisions with plenty of research and information to back it up. The C DISC style is perfectionistic and has very high standards for both themselves and others. Because they focus on the details and see what many other styles do not, they tend to be good problem solvers and very creative people.

The C DISC personality brings perspective to groups and tends to be the "anchor of reality" in the team thought. When something is proposed, the C will think through every detail of how it works and the process. They will make realistic estimates and voice any problems they see with the plan or the already existing system. The C is conscientious and even-tempered. They will complete tasks they've committed to and will be very thorough. They take great pride in doing their work accurately and are excellent analysts, researchers, or information testers.

The C Personality Type is one of the passive styles, which results in avoiding conflict. They will avoid conflict rather than argue, and it isn't easy to get them to verbalize their feelings. They need clear-cut boundaries to feel comfortable at work, in relationships, or to take action. Sometimes the C can be bound by procedures and methods and find it difficult to stray from order. Sometimes they can get too bogged down in the small details, making it difficult to see the next steps or big picture.

Because C Type Personalities take great pride in being accurate and correct, they fear criticism.

The C is motivated by information and logic. They have very high-quality standards and are inspired by being well informed, researching before deciding, having clear parameters and instructions, doing work accurately and correctly, and seeing a project through to the end.

The C Personality Type prefers an environment that is peaceful and organized with few to no conflicts or arguments. They do not need to be social at work and are fine working alone. They thrive in an environment where they can follow through tasks and projects to completion. C Styles especially excel in specialized or technical functions due to their attention to detail. The C feels most safe when there are procedures and routines, and they are given instructions and reassurance that they are doing what is expected of them.

C Personality Types desire independence and autonomy, but also a controlled and organized work environment. They require reassurance that they are doing what is expected and prefer accurate job descriptions, expectations, and goals to be laid out. They desire that things do not change, but if a change is necessary, it's well thought out and planned. The C does desire reassurance from others and fears being criticized.

When working with a C Personality Style, it's best to be prepared when possible. Do your research and prepare your case in advance. Pay attention to the details because this is what the C focuses on. When you can support a statement or idea with accurate data or examples, that is helpful. Submit a job description or specs for the project to give them parameters and details, and talk about how different tasks fit into the big picture plan. Be systematic and logical in your thinking and planning, and specific when agreeing or disagreeing. When disagreeing, work with facts instead of people examples. Be patient, persistent and diplomatic, and remember that they fear criticism.

Do not speak in broad generalizations with no specifics; use details and explanations when possible. Try not to answer questions too vaguely or casually, as they need information and data to make sense of new plans and decisions. Do not criticize the work they've already done, as they take great pride in their work. If you need to provide feedback to a C type, be specific with your examples and be diplomatic. Avoid being confrontational as they will not respond well to this and will close off.

DISC C Styles can become too focused on details, lacking perspective on the overall picture. However, they will be cautious when analyzing and will find any mistakes that need to be corrected. They are very effective troubleshooters. When the C style works with details and information, they excel, yet if they find problems or perceive a risk, they will try to avoid or postpone decisions based on it.

 styles are instinctive organizers who can both create and maintain systems. They strive for consistency, logic, and accuracy and do excellent work. They ask important questions and talk about problems that could hold up projects. They are "do it yourself" managers who center on tasks and will see something through until it's finished. They emphasize quality, think logically, and strive for a diplomatic approach and consensus within groups.

Although the C style fears criticism from others, especially for their work, they tend to be over-critical of others resulting from their attention to such detail. When doing this, it's easier to find all the faults. It's vital to concentrate on doing the right things and not just doing things right. When working in teams, the C style needs to be open to others' ideas and methods and move quickly to accomplish team goals. The C is seen as introverted and may need to concentrate more on people to build strong relationships, as they tend to be more task-driven and want to work alone. At times, the C will need to push themselves to be decisive and take risks, even if all the research isn't there to support it.

