1. You Are Analytical and Precise
A C-style individual only cares about the facts. They do not want opinions to clutter up what would otherwise be a cut-and-dried decision. They will spend as much time as possible gathering as much data as possible and take even more time to determine the best way to understand the results from that data.

Then, once they have considered it from every angle and triple-checked their work, they will present their findings and deny that any other conclusion could have been reached. They are very precise and will engage in a thorough analysis of even the smallest decisions.

2. You are Detail-Oriented
Someone with a dominant C-style personality type is highly focused on the finest details. This can lead them to become bogged down in minutiae, but they would rather everything be correct than present something that feels haphazard and incomplete.

They will check and recheck every element before presenting the finished product, and they will take great pride in the fact that they have done so. It is essential that they build extra time into their schedules to execute this process, and their managers need to understand that this is not only vital to their work but will result in a higher quality product.

3. You Are Driven by Results
While others may have a vague goal in mind, C-style people have a clearly articulated picture of what successful completion looks like. They are problem solvers to the highest degree and will work in a methodical and linear method to ensure that everything is done correctly and properly.

In this way, they would prefer to work alone to ensure that their lofty standards are met without too much outside interference. This can lead them to sacrifice relationships in favor of their accomplishments. In their minds, however, the results will speak for themselves.

4. You Are a Natural Organizer
For C-style individuals, there is a place for everything, and everything should be in its place. Whether sorted alphabetically, by size, by color, or by some personal system, nothing is out of place or disheveled. This applies to their workspace, their vehicles, and their homes.

If something appears disorderly, they will not rest until the perceived chaos has been resolved. Their organization can also apply to their calendars: they are always right on time for every meeting and social gathering, and they will never forget a birthday or special occasion.

5. You Are Cautious
Those with a dominant C-style personality will avoid risk at all costs. They are skeptical of new experiences and will be cautious in most situations. They will turn down new options in almost every scenario, instead favoring what is known and comfortable.

They would plan as much as possible if they were traveling to an unfamiliar area and would seek out ways that they could make their experience as predictable as possible. They may also take time to develop interpersonal relationships and would prefer not to commit to too much too soon.

6. You Are Private
A C-style person will likely be vague and non-committal if you ask what their weekend plans are. This does not necessarily mean that they are avoiding the question; they simply value their privacy and do not advertise their activities to the world. They have a very small and close-knit inner circle, and it takes time to build trust to gain a C-style person as a friend.



They do not broadcast what they are feeling but will hold much of their lives close to the vest. Being vulnerable, even in ways that most would view as small or meaningless, makes them uncomfortable, so be sure to empathize with them and respect their personal “bubble.”

7. You Are Compliant
Someone with a dominant C-style personality will follow every rule, every time. They will read the manual before starting anything and are the last person to question authority. They cannot comprehend why someone would color outside the lines, especially since most systems like this create a comfort level for C-style people.

When new directives are handed down, they will do whatever they can to comply with them as soon as possible. This can apply in social situations as well: once a group consensus has been reached, even if they disagree with it, they will go along with the crowd to avoid a confrontation.

