Individuals whose behavior is characterized primarily by Conscientiousness are moderate-paced and skeptical about people and situations. To navigate situations successfully, those high in Conscientiousness will exercise quality control by adhering to rules, standards, procedures and protocol.

Conscientious employees are:

Motivated by expertise and quality work
Limited by too much critique or analysis
Worried about criticism for being wrong
If you have a Conscientious team member, you’ll want to focus on facts and details with tact, politeness, patience and diplomacy. If a person’s Conscientious behavior pattern becomes problematic, help the employee focus on outcomes and develop flexible strategies to achieve them. This way, they can operate more independently from the current rules and standard procedures that sometimes stand in the way.


1. Cooperativeness (C>D)

When Conscientiousness is stronger than Dominance, the result is Cooperativeness–with both people and policies. Cooperative individuals are strong team players who tend to pair an easygoing personality with a rule-oriented approach to their work.

Not only do they typically respond well to leadership, they also tend to go the extra mile with communication to make sure they are on the same page and deliver the expected results.

As wonderful as it sounds, Cooperativeness can also be a weakness when it causes the individual to be unable to make decisions, or when the standard rules need to be bent a little in order to deliver the best service or product.

Managers can place Cooperative individuals on teams that have to collaborate or where rules and procedures must be carefully followed. They can execute the expected work with precision and get things done.


2. Accuracy (C>I)

Conscientiousness that is greater than Influence produces Accuracy. An Accurate person does things right the first time. Therefore, rather than take risks, they make sure they fully understand the situation or assignment, diligently checking and then re-checking their work.

An accurate individual delivers high-quality work that requires very few corrections or edits. And when they offer what sounds like their opinion, you can be fairly certain they are actually delivering researched truth or fact.

Accuracy becomes a weakness when it leads an individual to consistently correct everyone else’s work or ideas, or when they do not produce less-than-perfect results quickly enough to be meaningful in the need of the moment.


3. Sensitivity (C>S)

An employee who displays Conscientiousness over Steadiness is sensitive to the details and nuances of a situation. This person can foresee potential benefits and consequences of impending change.

Sensitivity can function as a strength that allows the individual to:

Quickly assess risk and decide whether or not to take it
Build rapport with others
See problems and what is required to correct them
Anticipate where projects might go wrong or how seemingly insignificant decisions could multiply into serious obstacles further down the road
Sensitivity can also be a weakness if the person is too sensitive, taking feedback personally or being distracted by everything happening around them.