You might appreciate how the C styles are able to focus on the big picture right now and make logical choices. Or you might notice that them becoming more rigid and out of touch with others. They react to stress by overusing restraint and by relying on data and analysis to an even greater degree.

What might be stressing the C style right now?
Not having all the desired facts to make decisions
Emotions displayed in response to political unrest, economic instability, mass shootings, or other news
Not knowing how best to respond to the needs of their loved ones
Anticipating more social and in-person events
Trying to show empathy via technology
Making well-considered plans then having to change them
Not being able to meet their high standards
Working under time pressure
Being unprepared
Not knowing when or how their organization will respond to changes enabled by coronavirus vaccinations
Anything that challenges their core belief: I’m valuable if I’m competent

What does the C style need during times of change?
Competence: knowing that they can do their jobs well and maintain credibility

Understanding: knowing the implications of the change(s) and maintaining their expertise

Stability: having a sense of predictability and freedom from chaos

Tips for the C style
Take the time to examine whether your goals and expectations are reasonable and attainable right now. You can adjust them.
Consider that there might not be an optimal answer or best choice. If you make a poor choice, that might be data for your next one.
Develop, practice, and upgrade your skills in empathy. Empathize so you can understand and test assumptions. Don’t rush empathy, and don’t try and empathize before you truly understand the situation. Take an extra five minutes to listen and ask questions before trying to connect with the other person.
Contribute more than criticize. It’s often easier for the C-style to spot problems and find faults than to bring people together to fix them.
Don’t put off difficult conversions. Putting them off won’t make them easier. Do prepare the other person. Just find a time when they don’t have their kid in the room or are walking their dog, for examples.
Look beyond the data. Look to the people side of things. How are your actions affecting others? Try not to be too stubborn. Stay open to alternatives.
Avoid isolating yourself. This may involve practicing being vulnerable. Vulnerability and the courage to be open to another person are the keys to real human connection.
Know that you’re not alone if you’re nervous about seeing more people. Nearly half of respondents (49%) to American Psychological Association’s latest Stress in America™ poll said they feel uneasy about adjusting to in-person interaction once the pandemic ends.
You don’t have to do it all. Build up your delegation skills.
We’re all finding new ways of celebrating and you might need time to imagine what those will be like, how you can join in, and how you want to contribute. It’s never a bad time to thank someone or let them know how much you appreciate their contributions.
Establish routines based on what you value. For example, if you value learning take a regularly scheduled online course. If you value a relationship, schedule regular contact with that person. If you really enjoy teaching, offer to demonstrate how to use an online platform, play a new game, or develop a skill.
Try on the receptive mindset typical of the S style. Stay open to others’ ideas and be willing to compromise.
