C-style profiles are the most analytical and reserved of the 4 DISC styles, also known as 4 personality types. They can be very detail-oriented. C-styles prefer focusing on facts, information and proofs. They are comfortable working alone. C-styles are cautious and hold themselves to high standards. They focus on analyzing tasks and the quality of the product or service. C-styles make sure that everything works the way it should.

C-styles can come across as critical of others. They focus on finding mistakes and expect everyone to follow their standards. Others can perceive their attention to detail and correctness as nit-picky.. C-styles’ desire to do things correctly can also slow down their decision-making. They can over-analyze issues and need a lot of information. Under pressure they can come across as being overly critical.

The C-style profile’s motto is, “if we do not have time to do it right, do we have time to do it over again?” C-styles like to ask the “why” questions, “Why does it work this way?” or ” Why is this step needed?”

Is quiet; proceeds cautiously.
Focuses on details; asks many questions.
Is deliberate and controlled.
Is not comfortable with physical contact.
Appears reserved and somewhat timid.
Doesn’t express disagreeing views easily.
Is well prepared; may have done homework.
Studies specifications and other information carefully.
Makes decision only after studying pertinent facts/issues.
May be very critical; criticism based on facts, not opinions.


Analytical
Detailed
Exact
Perfectionist
Systematic
Accurate
Cautious
Careful
Thorough
Distant
Formal
Withdrawn
Quiet
Logical
Controlled
Compliant

C-profiles often prefer to use written communication, like emails. They don’t readily express disagreeing views. They want detailed, fact-based information to insure they make the correct decisions. Since C-profiles focus so much on details and data, they may miss the big picture. C-profiles prefer conversations where they don’t have to focus on opinions or abstract matters. They can be extremely diplomatic.

The C-style’s authority is based on rules and proven standards. They prefer to keep distance from people. C-style leaders emphasize rules and quality focus. They are a “things” leader; they are more interested in facts, details and analyses.

