Work cooperatively with others.
Follow trusted leaders.
Be humble, unassuming, and reluctant to talk about their accomplishments.
Accommodate the requests others rather than risk conflict.
Seek predictability and consistency.

Approaching decision-making carefully.
Being highly organized and attentive to details.
Using low-risk solutions that have proven effective in the past.
Using a structured approach to developing others whenever possible.

Not bringing underlying conflict to the surface when necessary.
Delaying making decisions perceived as high-risk.
Hesitating to try solutions that have not been tested.
Spending too much time analyzing information before making a decision.

Address important issues directly; if necessary, write out your perspective and give the other person a chance to read it, so that the issue is clearly addressed.
Set a way to measure results of new solutions so you can easily tell if they are working or not.
Recognize that delaying risky decisions doesn’t make them go away; but resolving them early-on, you will prevent a lot of unnecessary stress.
Set a designated time for big decisions; if you’re unable to come to a conclusion by then, seek advice from someone you trust.

Planners can be focused, careful partners. When in a relationship with another steady personality, they should make an effort to be more openly communicative of their own perspectives.

Listening attentively to their partner
Patiently building long-term trust
Considering their partner’s feelings when making a decision

Addressing underlying conflict in a timely manner
Clearly conveying negative feelings
Trusting a new partner quickly

Sc personality types are most compatible with personalities that complement their easy-going and predictable personality, such as Id, S, or IS types.

Planners tend to thrive in routine-oriented, consistent environments. They love work that allows them to think through decisions, consider others, and organize information effectively. Planners can help more fast-paced, impulsive people consider others and make more well-thought-out decisions. When working with another S-type, they should openly address any issues they have to find an effective, mutually beneficial solution.

Show gratitude for their contributions to the workplace
Take the initiative to ask them about themselves
Play a stable and consistent role within the team

Feel unacknowledged or unappreciated
Dismiss others’ new ideas too quickly
Feel pushed to reveal too much personal information

They are asked to organize an event for the team.
Their boss shows appreciation for their help.
Their peers trust them enough to share personal information.
Their direct reports appreciate helpful feedback.

They have to work in disorder and chaos.
Their boss doesn’t know them personally.
Their peers don’t attend their organized events.
Their direct reports blatantly question their guidance.

Give support and guidance to others.
Make others feel at ease.
Appreciate consistency and predictability.
Accommodate others rather than risk conflict.
Collaborate peacefully with a group.

With a position on the middle bottom of the DISC model map, Stabilizers are usually quick to agree with others, accommodating to their viewpoints rather than risking conflict. They can be extremely perceptive, detail-oriented, and meticulous in their work. Socially, they may easily adjust to a wide range of personal styles and maintain harmony in any situation.

howing people how to do things in a step-by-step manner.
Using a predictable routine and established schedules.
Working with a specific plan for how things are going to be done.
Giving specific, detailed information when assigning work.

Putting off high-risk decisions for too long.
Hesitating to try solutions that have not been tested, but may be effective.
Deferring high-impact decisions to higher levels of authority or requiring sign-off.
Not being forceful or assertive when necessary.

Make an effort to try new solutions, especially for situations with a smaller impact.
Recognize when a decision is yours to make, without needing to seek approval from someone else.
Set a designated time for important decisions; if you’re unable to come to a conclusion by then, seek advice from someone you trust.
Give some people more space to work independently, without close monitoring.

Stabilizers can be consistent, loyal partners. When in a relationship with another steady personality, it is important for them to communicate their perspective honestly in times of conflict.

Thoughtfully considering their partner’s perspective
Carefully building a strong, stable relationship
Desire to settle-down and make firm commitments

Making important decisions quickly
Confidently sharing their perspective in a disagreement
Trusting a more impulsive or spontaneous partner

Because of their introverted nature, SC personality types are likely to be more compatible with extroverted personalities such as DI, I, or Is.

Stabilizers tend to thrive in peaceful, welcoming environments that are less competitive and more collaborative. They enjoy stable work that allows them to follow a consistent routine. Stabilizers can help more spontaneous, outspoken people calmly think through their choices. When working with another S-type, it’s important that they avoid letting conflict grow by focusing on addressing problems quickly after they occur.

Value their input on decisions
Deliver specific, accurate feedback
Give them plenty of notice for meetings and events

Are pushed into situations that make them uncomfortable
Work alongside people who don’t follow-through on projects
Neglect to acknowledge and resolve a rapidly growing problem

They are asked to follow set rules, procedures, or routines.
Their boss clearly communicates expectations.
Their peers ask for their help planning something.
Their direct reports ask clear questions.

They have to make hasty decisions.
Their boss gives them multiple projects at a time.
Their peers invite them to last-minute plans.
Their direct reports make risky choices without their knowledge.

They have to make hasty decisions.
Their boss gives them multiple projects at a time.
Their peers invite them to last-minute plans.
Their direct reports make risky choices without their knowledge.

Take a private, independent approach to life.
Be sensitive to other peoples' phoniness, insincerity or arrogance.
Appreciate guidance and direction from others.
Separate emotions from decision-making.
Be serious, exacting and, sometimes, perfectionistic in their work.

Using an analytical approach to solving problems.
Considering many factors when making a decision.
Gathering information and assesses risk before making decisions.
Showing people how to do things in a step-by-step manner.
Maintaining quality by asking questions frequently.

Spending more time working alone when collaboration would be more effective.
Hesitating to try new solutions that have not been tested.
Spending too much time analyzing information before making a decision.
Overcomplicating solutions to simple problems.
Deferring high-impact decisions to higher levels of authority or requiring sign-off.
Expecting others to be as organized and attentive to detail as they are.

Recognize when a situation requires (or benefits from) collaboration; make an effort to work with others when necessary.
Write out problems and potential solutions to make sure you aren’t missing more simple ideas.
Learn to let go of others’ personal organization habits, unless it’s directly harming you in some way.
Make an effort to teach and advise more outgoing people in person, so they have the opportunity to discuss ideas and ask questions.

Logically working through difficult problems
Giving their partner a great deal of autonomy
Ability to find working solutions to personal issues

Editors can be level-headed, sincere partners. When in a relationship with another conscientious personality, it is important for them to remain open-minded and avoid withdrawing from others

Accepting and adjusting to new circumstances 
Understanding their partner’s point of view
Sharing their feelings openly with their partner

Cs personality types are most compatible with personalities that are able to complement their serious and introverted nature, such as Id, Si, or Is types.

Editors tend to thrive in subdued work environments that allow them plenty of space to work on their own. They enjoy having clear expectations and consistent schedules. Editors can help more idealistic, casual coworkers understand the value in making carefully considered choices. When working with another C-type, it’s important that they avoid getting stuck in the decision-making process or rejecting new ideas simply because they are risky.

Present carefully thought-out information
Focus on communicating in writing
Work in their own, separate space

Expect too much from their coworkers
Deliver negative feedback too harshly
Are guarded and closed-off from their coworkers

They are asked to solve a problem with careful thought and consideration.
Their boss gives them time to produce quality results.
Their peers communicate with them primarily through writing.
Their direct reports follow step-by-step instructions.

They have to frequently partake in large discussions.
Their boss offers a vague explanation of the goals.
Their peers interrupt or distract them.
Their direct reports need constant affirmation.

Editors are most satisfied and productive when they are continuously building skill and expertise. They value stability and security, and are well-suited for process-oriented environments and roles that allow them to work with accuracy and precision.

Prefer privacy and solitary activities.
Make objective decisions rather than emotional ones.
Skeptically or realistically appraise people and situations.
Be sensitive to lack of sincerity in others.
Maintain a serious demeanor at work.

Taking time to think things through when making decisions.
Providing clearly defined procedures when giving assignments.
Using a deliberate, methodical approach when solving problems.
Being comfortable analyzing large amounts of information.
Giving work assignments in writing and requests written feedback.

Seeking a perfect solution instead of a workable solution.
Taking a lot of time gathering information and assessing risk before making decisions.
Avoiding or resisting people who do not use a systematic approach to organizing work.
Feeling the urge to criticize people who don't meet their standards for quality and accuracy.
Checking in too frequently, with too many questions, when someone needs more autonomy.

Sharing about the work they're doing with the rest of the team, even if it’s just in a brief message.
Understanding that there are natural differences in strengths; one of theirs is likely your organization, so there will likely be many scenarios in which it’s best for them to adopt the organizational responsibilities.
Remaining open-minded to others’ unique strengths, even if they seem frustratingly different from their own; people will often surprise C-types with their capabilities.
Working with others who might have a more simple, direct approach to problem-solving.

Carefully considering their choice in partner.
Thinking through what they say before they say it.
Being comfortable with necessary conflict.

Considering their partner’s perspective.
Being emotionally open and vulnerable.
Spending quality time with their partner.

C personality types are most compatible with personalities that are able to complement their introverted and pragmatic nature, such as Is, Si, or IS types.

Analysts tend to thrive in private environments where they can take enough time to do their work with accuracy, precision, and the highest possible quality. They can help more outgoing, quick-acting coworkers take the time to stop and think through important decisions. When working with another C-type, it’s important that they consider new ways of approaching a situation when they feel stuck on a problem.

Have evidence to back up their claims.
Show patience when answering clarifying questions.
Give them plenty of space to work independently.

Neglect to consider other people’s ideas.
Misunderstand an assignment because they didn’t meet in-person.
Unnecessarily criticize the actions of their coworkers.

They are given plenty of personal space to solve a problem.
Their boss gives them plenty of autonomy.
Their peers ask them for advice in becoming more efficient.
Their direct reports follow the exact rules and guidelines.

They have to work closely with other people.
Their boss requires a lot of face-to-face meetings.
Their peers spend too much time talking.
Their direct reports make things up as they go.


Seek personal space, privacy and autonomy.
Steer clear of large group activities.
Relate to others in an independent and detached manner.
Build trust or reveal personal information more slowly than most people.
Make decisions without emotions clouding their judgement.

Being straightforward, objective, and grounded in reality.
Using an analytical approach to solving problems.
Taking responsibility and ownership over results.
Focusing on what needs to be done, by whom and when.
Developing others by specifying competency requirements and assessing performance.

Being critical of people who don't meet their standards for quality and accuracy.
Overcomplicating solutions to simple problems.
Being uncomfortable with small talk, saving time but missing out on its relational benefits.
Spending more time working alone when collaboration would be more effective.
Reacting aggressively when others try to limit authority or autonomy.

Avoid criticizing others’ weaknesses so much by recognizing and appreciating some of their strengths.
Find some appreciation for small-talk by understanding how it helps relax, encourage, and unite people.
When time doesn’t permit you to continue pursuing other solutions, learn to settle for a workable, sometimes even temporary, solution.
If you feel overwhelmed or challenged by another person, take some space to think and breathe; then come back to calmly and directly express your frustrations.

Being able to take constructive criticism well
Staying calm and logical in tense, emotional situations
Ability to find the root cause of a problem

Skeptics can be independent, direct partners. It is important for them to avoid withdrawing from others, especially when in a relationship with another conscientious personality.

Remaining sensitive to their partner’s emotions
Sharing verbal encouragement and affirmation
Recognizing their partner’s needs

Skeptics tend to thrive in environments that are more formal, structured, and give them opportunities to build their skills. Skeptics can help those who are more people-oriented and empathetic make more logical, practical choices. When working with another C-type, it’s important that they remain open to new ideas that might be more beneficial for the team.

Address new situations with careful, logical thought.
Communicate primarily through written forms.
Are comfortable working independently.

Address new situations with careful, logical thought.
Communicate primarily through written forms.
Are comfortable working independently.

They are asked to find a way to improve the team’s efficiency.
Their boss asks for their input.
Their peers follow their clear, specific direction.
Their direct reports work efficiently.

They have to consider others’ feelings.
Their boss is unproductive or overly emotional.
Their peers ask too many personal questions
Their direct reports need frequent reassurance.


Speak with matter-of-fact, objective language.
Act with purpose and focus.
Pursue goals rather than spend much time interacting with others.
Aggressively overcome opposition and competition.
Be impatient when progress is blocked.

Using a reserved, business-like approach when interacting with others.
Developing efficient approaches that improve performance and maintain quality.
Showing people how to do things in a logical sequence.
Directing others in an impersonal manner with clarity and precision.
Taking on complex, interconnected problems and making sense of them.


Monitoring results closely to the point where they feel micromanaged.
Appearing cold, detached or uninvolved when interacting with others.
Displaying frustration when standards for performance are not met.
Criticizing people who don't meet their standards for quality and accuracy.
Being overly brief or robotic in communication.
Making changes quickly and decisively, potentially disrupting the work of others.

Practice giving others space to work independently and without close monitoring.
Make an effort to ask people about themselves, on occasion, so you can build stronger relationships.
Avoid showing your frustration in your face; take a moment to step outside and breathe before expressing how your expectations aren’t being met and offering potential solutions.
Practice being patient with those in positions of authority by appreciating their hard work and respectfully offering your thoughts.

Giving their partner plenty of space
Using logic to work through issues
Ability to address and work through tense or stressful problems

Questioners can be focused, intense partners. When in a relationship with another conscientious personality, it is important for them to try to consider new ideas and avoid being overly critical of one another.

Seeing things from their partner’s point of view
Taking the time to get to know their partner deeply
Adapting to new or unexpected situations

Questioners tend to thrive in environments that are more autonomous and value accuracy, logic, and pragmatism.  They enjoy directing others by setting clear expectations. Questioners can help more emotional, enthusiastic coworkers analyze and question new ideas. When working with another C-type, it is crucial that they avoid rejecting new ideas simply because they are risky.

Work in a focused and amazing way.
Avoid unnecessary small-talk.
Complete tasks within the set timeline.

Criticize or scrutinize their coworkers.
Deliver negative feedback too harshly.
Make unreasonable demands of their coworkers.

They are asked to give performance feedback to others.
Their boss gives them plenty of responsibility.
Their peers respect their advice and direction.
Their direct reports follow the correct rules and procedures.

They have to consider the feelings of others.
Their boss wants them to build relationships with others.
Their peers frequently engage in casual conversation.
Their direct reports are continually distracted.

With a position on the upper far left of the DISC map, Architects prefer to be serious and are more likely to spend energy on business-like, purposeful interactions with others than casual social ones. With a strong focus on results, they tend to desire control over those things that affect their ability to achieve their goals and actively resist distractions along the way.

Seek control over their environment.
Focus more of their time at work on results than relationships.
Be diligent, strong-willed, and determined in their pursuit of goals.
React to opposition with force, rather than passivity.
Place high expectations on their own performance and that of others.

Being focused on results and realistic expectations.
Maintaining efficiency and being oriented towards constant improvement in performance.
Identifying specific ways to help others improve.
Seeing the world through a clear, logical, factual lens.
Carefully considering making decisions perceived as high-risk.
Communicating directly, using facts and precise language.
Taking responsibility and ownership over results.

Being overly forceful and inflexible when providing instructions.
Changing things too quickly without justifying the clear reasons for it.
Using a very goal-oriented approach that might ignore important details.
Addressing conflict with a firm, direct approach, which may be uncomfortable for some.
Expressing critical feedback very quickly, without consideration for emotions.

Try keeping an open mind when offering instructions; someone else might have an idea for a more efficient way of doing something.
Give others notice of potential major decisions or changes that will impact them, so they have time to prepare.
Think through critical feedback; avoid giving it quickly or without thought. Instead, always make an effort to adapt your delivery to best suit the other person.
Consider the other person in times of conflict; try to adjust your communication to fit their needs. Avoid being overly harsh or critical.

Directly addressing any problems
Maintaining practical, realistic expectations for a relationship
Ability to remain level-headed in emotional conversationsDc personality types are most compatible with personalities that are able to complement their independent and efficient nature, such as I, Is, or other D types.

Architects can be purposeful, direct partners. When in a relationship with another forceful personality, it is crucial that they establish a system for evenly distributing the power. 

Being emotionally open or vulnerable
Showing sensitivity to their partner’s feelings
Seeing a situation from their partner’s point of view

Architects tend to thrive in environments that allow them to work on a tight deadline to accomplish goals. They enjoy working independently or in a position that allows them to manage and direct others. When Architects work alongside people who are more thorough and considerate, they can add efficiency and clear communication to the team. If they work with another D-type, it’s important that they negotiate and balance responsibilities.

Work quickly and effectively.
Openly share thoughts and logical ideas.
Are comfortable working in the background.

Question those in positions of authority.
Push others to work faster than they are able.
Challenge the set rules or procedures.

They are asked to finish a project in a short amount of time.
Their boss allows them to directly express their thoughts.
Their peers communicate in a logical, formal way. 
Their direct reports work diligently with limited hands-on guidance.

They are asked to move on from a project before it’s complete.
Their boss gives them very little responsibility.
Their peers are unmotivated to accomplish shared goals.
Their direct reports take a lot of time to finish work.

Architects are most satisfied and productive when they are learning as they go - continuously building skill and expertise. They value stability and security, and are well-suited for process-oriented environments and roles that allow them to work with accuracy and precision.



