D-Style: The Dominant Personality
1. You Are a Natural Leader
D-style individuals love taking charge. When someone asks them a question, theirs is always the first hand to be raised. They naturally aspire to be in positions of authority, and they won’t take no for an answer.
They have an innate drive to be the best they can be, and often that can mean inspiring others to be at their best as well. They never shy away from extra work. Instead, they see it as an opportunity to prove themselves and are willing to put in hard work now for a payoff later.
2. You Are Confident
Those with a dominant D-style are naturally confident. They never need to be reassured of their worth or value. They know it, own it, and proclaim it to others. They know their strengths and will always play to them. Conversely, they are also aware of their weaknesses and may avoid circumstances that would expose them.
They always put their best foot forward in any circumstance, and never back down from a challenge. Their natural confidence is magnetic, and they tend to exude charisma that attracts others to them.
3. You Are Direct
D-style individuals never beat around the bush; they will always get right to the point. Sometimes this can seem rude or uncaring, but they simply see no need for certain social niceties. Rather than attempting to soften news or give a thorough background explanation, they would rather tell it like it is.
They see this as a service to others, giving them the facts first and not wasting time with interpretations that may or may not be accurate. This can be helpful in a business setting, but it can become a problem in personal relationships if they fail to account for the other person’s feelings.
4. You Are Goal-Oriented
Those with a D-style personality always have the end goal in sight. They were the children whose main goal was a college application, and they are the new employees who have their eye on the CEO’s desk. They do not waste time with activities that do not serve their larger goals; in their opinion, it would only slow them down and keep them from reaching those goals sooner.
They will make a plan that lets them most efficiently and successfully reach their goals, then stick to it faithfully. They never do anything “just for the fun of it” – everything has a purpose.
5. You Are Competitive
D-style people can’t stand coming in second place. If they didn’t win the trophy or the promotion, they see it as a failure. Their natural competitiveness won’t allow them to sit on their laurels; they will do whatever it takes to get ahead.
This means giving their all in every situation and usually means doubling down on practice or preparation if they want to improve their performance. Due to their desire for leadership and reaching their goals, victory is a natural aspiration. Sometimes this can mean leaving friends or coworkers behind if they feel that others slow them down. They can become blinded by the will to win and cast others aside at times.
6. You Are an Extrovert
D-style people love being the life of the party. They gain energy from having lots of people around them, and they can comfortably slide into any conversation or social setting. Individuals with a dominant D-style personality have never met a stranger, and use their natural self-confidence to their advantage.
They crave excitement and relationships and feel like something is missing when they are alone. This is not always a selfish tendency: they can also have a big heart for helping others, transferring their social nature into helping out at work or in the community.
7. You Like to Be in Control
The term “control freak” typically applies well to D-style individuals. Because they have a specific goal in mind for their work or activities, and because they are naturally confident in their own abilities, they can fall prey to doing everything themselves. They have very high standards, and if someone else’s work is not up to snuff, they will likely redo it on their own. They love having all the answers and being trusted to take care of important tasks.