Dominance

Those who have a behavior pattern most influenced by the Dominance factor:
	•	Are fast-paced and skeptical of the people and situations in their environment
	•	Solve new problems quickly and assertively
	•	Take an active and direct approach to achieving results
Since these types are motivated by action and challenge, they can easily grow impatient and require constant opportunities to solve important problems. In meetings and discussions, they need to know what is expected and need to focus on solutions rather than problems.
If their level of Dominance becomes problematic, they need to be encouraged to slow down and think through new problems carefully before acting. Otherwise, they can rush to decisions and cause problems for your organization or team.
The way Dominance manifests itself all depends on how it is combined with other behaviors.
When combined with other less intense factors, Dominant behavior takes on a new flavor. The greater the spread of any of these categories, the more pronounced these characteristics will be:

1. Efficiency (D>I)

A higher intensity of Dominance with a lower intensity of Influence produces a drive for efficiency. This person is objective and works in an effective, resourceful, and competent manner, which is great for keeping the team on track and meeting deadlines.
However, when efficiency causes an individual to compromise how or why things are done for the sake of fast results, details will get missed and quality will suffer.

2. Self-Motivation (D>S):

When Dominance is higher than Steadiness, the employee will display a high degree of self-motivation. This person can think and act quickly without instruction because they are able to plan and produce new ideas for themselves. In a team setting, the self-motivated individual enables the team to accomplish more, which creates greater efficiency as a group.
The downside to self-motivation is that it can cause conflicts and resentment within the group due to impatience, lack of empathy, or lack of trust toward team members who don’t keep pace.

3. Independence (D>C):

A team member who displays Dominance over Conscientiousness possesses a spirit of independence–preferring to work alone, creating their own rules, resisting authority, and taking pride in what they can achieve on their own.
At first glance, you may be disconcerted by this characteristic. However, independence can foster self-reliance, self-regulation, and a freedom to create and innovate. Independent individuals can help the team avoid stagnation as long as they are not belligerent, arrogant, or poor team players who are unable to learn anything from anyone other than themselves.