I-Style: The Influencer Personality
1. You Are Highly Social
Those with a dominant I-style personality type are always in the middle of a party or social gathering. Their calendars are always full of appointments, meetings, get-togethers, and activities with friends. An open night with nothing to do drives them to leave the house and find a party to join.This stems partly from a strong need to be the center of attention. They will always agree to a dare, and always have something to contribute to the conversation at hand. They want to be seen as the “fun friend” who is the life of the party.
2. You Influence Others to Follow You
I-style individuals are highly charismatic. They can inspire others by their words and actions, and can be viewed as natural leaders in this way. If you need to get everyone on board with a common vision and goal, get an I-style person to be your spokesperson. They can believably communicate any message and convince others that their way is the best way.
Experienced communicators with this personality type will also recognize that an opportunity for their influence on others is not complete when the project begins; they can work with and motivate others to see things through to the very end.
3. You Are Optimistic
I-style people always see the glass as half full. They do not allow themselves to be weighed down by a pessimistic or cynical viewpoint, and can always find something positive in any scenario. If circumstances do not go their way, they do not allow life to drag them down. They will instead pick themselves up and find another way around. They will automatically look to Plan B, C, or D if A does not pan out.
In relationships, this means that they will choose to see the best in others, even to their own detriment. This can cause them to trust more easily, but even a breach of trust may not cause lasting harm as they will still maintain their optimistic outlook.
4. You Are Enthusiastic
Those with I-style characteristics have their energy levels set as high as they can go. They are bubbly, bold, and excited most of the time, and love to share those feelings with others. They find great enjoyment in their work, hobbies, or friendships, and pursue everything with vigor. It doesn’t matter if it’s a new friendship, extra projects at work, or a new pastime – they will always wear their happiness on their sleeves and will readily share that excitement with others.
5. You Are Collaborative
Ironically, I-style individuals know that there is no “I” in a team. They want to include everybody in their work and are always ready to cooperate and collaborate. They see most activities as a team effort and strive to ensure that all members of the team feel included and valued.This tendency stems from their innate ability to inspire and lead others, but being put in a position of leadership does not prevent them from delegating tasks to those around them. They will typically ask for a second and third opinion on a project, striving to include as many voices as possible in the finished product.
6. You Are Emotional
Along with their natural enthusiasm comes a tendency for I-style individuals to get swept up in their own feelings. They can experience mood swings in nearly any circumstance, and they may not always be positive ones. They can become easily offended by criticism or exclusion, and little things can affect them in both good and bad ways.
They are never shy about how they feel and expect those around them to take those feelings seriously. This can be helpful at times, but it can get them into trouble when a level head is needed.
7. You Are Free-Spirited
Those with a dominant I-style personality type do not allow themselves to be tied down by convention. They approach life as a blank canvas, seeing inspiration everywhere. They are excellent brainstormers because they can usually be relied on to think of solutions that others have not.
They won’t follow agendas or instructions to the letter, but will instead find new ways to gain joy and life out of an experience. When something doesn’t go “according to plan,” they won’t let that affect them too badly, but will instead look for the next best opportunity.
