Influence

Employees whose behavior is most characterized by the Influence factor are:
	•	Fast-paced
	•	Accepting of the people and situations in their environment
	•	Talkative, interactive, and open
	•	Gregarious and socially assertive
Because Influencers are motivated by recognition but concerned about a possible loss of social influence, a good manager will give them public recognition when appropriate, allow time for questions, and try not to overload them with a lot of details.
If your employee’s Influence behavior is overpowering, you can encourage this person to exhibit more emotional restraint along with a more controlled, quiet and reserved communication approach.
As with the Dominance behavior pattern, the Influence type takes on a new flavor when combined with other less intense factors. The greater the spread of any of these, the more pronounced these characteristics will be:

1. Friendliness (I>D)

Friendliness is the opposite of Efficiency. When a person’s behavior is more Influential than Dominant, they are entertaining and fun to be around. Your team members who exhibit Friendliness can communicate effectively, build rapport and gain the trust of others.
While Friendliness is a great trait in people-oriented work like sales or public speaking (as long as the friendliness is not overdone), it can present weaknesses in more task-oriented responsibilities.

2. Enthusiasm (I>S)

When Influence is more intense than Steadiness, the result is an outgoing, positive, and energetic pace we call Enthusiasm. Enthusiasm enables a person to be open with their feelings, have a bright outlook on life, find pleasure in normal circumstances and motivate others to be enthusiastic as well.
Unfortunately, too much enthusiasm can become a weakness when it causes an inability to understand coworkers in sour moods, a rush to action without thinking things through or frustration with constructive criticism or caution intended to be helpful.

3. Self-Confidence (I>C)

Leading with Influence over Conscientiousness produces an air of self-confidence that not only allows for a level of comfort and ease in social situations but also causes the individual to doubt others before doubting himself. Self-confident team members can make their presence known in any situation, assure themselves of what they do well, and explore their visionary ideas even in the face of adversity or criticism.
However, self-confidence can be taken to a wrong extreme and cause the individual to act impulsively rather than logically. When this happens, the team member can be seen by coworkers as being egotistical, close-minded, and uncaring.