The S Personality Type in the DISC model, developed by Dr. William Marston, is known for being steady, stable, and predictable. They are even-tempered, friendly, sympathetic with others, and very generous with loved ones. The S is understanding and listens well. Preferring close, personal relationships, the S is very opened with loved ones but can also be possessive at times and hold them close.

The S style is reliant and dependable. They are patient, good listeners who want to work with teams harmoniously. They strive for consensus and will try hard to reconcile conflicts as they arise. They are compliant towards authority and a loyal team player. The S is also good at multi-tasking and seeing tasks through until completion.

The S is described as stable, reliable, and predictable. They like to get into a routine with what feels secure and stick with it, resulting in opposition towards change. They adjust best when given a long enough period to adapt to change and require an explanation of why the change is occurring. Because the S style is passive and avoids conflict, they may also hold grudges when they experience frustrations and resentments instead of facing the issue head-on. They strive for positive environments and relationships and can be especially sensitive when it comes to criticism. They want to please others and may have difficulty saying "No" or establishing priorities.

Because the S Personality strives for stability and a feeling of peace and safety, they fear security loss through change.

The S Personality is motivated by safety and security. They want to avoid conflict and exist in peaceful environments and around groups that are in harmony. They genuinely appreciate recognition for their loyalty and dependability

The S flourishes in a team environment when working with others and getting along. They enjoy people but prefer individuals and groups that they trust and feel comfortable around. They like environments with little change or surprise and little to no conflict. They like tasks that can be completed at one time or seen through from beginning to end and enjoy practical procedures and systems. The S style wants stability, predictability, and harmony.

S DISC Types desire sincere appreciation for their acts of kindness and security in both situations and environments. They enjoy repetition and patterns, as well as time to adjust to change if it must occur.

When working with S Types, try to be personable and build rapport. The sooner they feel comfortable with you, the sooner they will open up to you, especially if they see genuine interest in them as a person. They may need help getting started with new projects. Allow them time to process and ask questions. Provide them with specifics and clarifications for tasks they are asked to do and explain the "how" questions. When giving feedback to the S Style DISC Profile, do so in private with thoughtfully explain feedback with empathy, patience, and understanding. If instituting change in the workplace, be patient with them, explain your reasoning, and give them time to adjust. It will make them uncomfortable at first

When working with a DISC S Style, it's essential to be kind and patient. Don't expect or force them to make decisions quickly. Avoid being confrontational, using a firm tone or body language, being overly aggressive, pushy, or demanding. They avoid confrontation and will recoil if approached in this way.

The S will genuinely try to help with the details and is a valuable support for team goals. They may work slowly and systematically, which can slow down the action. If they genuinely have a concern or doubt, they will likely internalize it or hesitate to voice their feedback unless a safe environment has been created for dialogue.

They are naturally relational, creating a supportive and positive team environment. S types tend to be very grounded in reality and common sense and may see a more straightforward or practical way to accomplish a goal. They are talented multi-taskers but will work at a slow and steady pace until something is complete. S types are peacemakers and nurturers in groups, approaching other team members with patience, attention, loyalty, and an even-temper. They can even view a project from both the overall big picture view and the smaller steps to get there.

The S Personality Style may truly struggle with change, and therefore will struggle with adjustment and need to work on openness and flexibility in this area. Because they desire positive personal relationships and avoid conflict, S types may be overly agreeable or put others' needs before their own. They may need to adapt their communication style and be more direct in their interactions and be aware of their wants and needs. It may take intentionality to express their thoughts, opinions, and feelings in situations, although they make excellent listeners to others. Sometimes the slower pace of the S style may need to be increased to accomplish goals on time.
