1. You Are Calm and Balanced
Steady, stable, and secure – these are all words to describe the S-style personality type. They remain level-headed in any circumstance, even when everything around them seems to be going haywire. They have a natural internal balance that allows them to calmly assess the situation and find the best way out. They are not prone to mood swings or emotional outbursts but can be relied upon for an objective viewpoint. They tend not to be extreme, either in their actions or viewpoints, which can be helpful in intense argumentative situations.

2. You Are Dependable
Those with an S-style personality are reliable and dependable. They never miss a deadline, they always keep their commitments, and their work is of consistent quality. While they may not wow you by going over and above (unless they are dependable in that way), they will nevertheless maintain their standards over time in a way that provides stability and fosters trust.

If they say they will come through, they will find a way to do so. This kind of team player is invaluable in business because every team needs solid performers that can deliver each and every time.

3. You Rely on a Routine
S-style individuals do not react well when things don’t go exactly according to plan. They have their calendars, their belongings, and maybe even their diet organized under a strict regimen. Anomalies and variables do not sit well with them. They prefer a predictable routine that they can control and influence.

They also will stick within their comfort zones, whether it’s with an upcoming project at work or a new and unfamiliar social setting. They may end up enjoying a new experience if they were to try it, but getting them over the first hurdle of agreeing to try it is the hardest step.

4. You Are Reserved
Those with a dominant S-style personality are calm and balanced, which also means that they will not show their emotions very easily. They tend to be reserved with how they express themselves, whether with their speech or dress, or activities. They will be mostly private, preferring to keep to themselves.

You won’t see them posting every meal or thought on social media because they value their privacy and want to keep some things out of the public eye. They may not speak up if an argument arises, and will rarely contradict others if confronted.

5. You Seek Consensus
S-style individuals just want everyone to get along and be happy together. They actively avoid conflict and try to find common ground in any situation where disagreement occurs. They would much rather get everyone on the same page as quickly as possible, and not let discussions drag out for what seems like forever.

They hate disagreement and will work (generally behind the scenes) to try to smooth things over before a situation gets out of hand. Someone like this is essential when you have team members or friends that never seem to get along – when the friction starts, call in your S-style friend.

6. You Are a Team Player
An S-style person will seek the good of the group, occasionally at their own expense. They are the best example of a true team player, consistently seeking ways that they can serve others. This can be as simple as selecting the right gift for a friend’s birthday or offering to cover a shift for someone when they need to be away from work.

This may involve working late to help someone with their project, or simply making themselves available for a friend or family member that needs assistance. Whatever the case may be, the S-Style individual may burn themselves out by taking on too many demands, but because they naturally want to help others, they wouldn’t have it any other way.

7. You Are Slow to Accept Change
Along with a comfortable routine, S-style people are highly averse to change. If they are transferred to another department, forced to relocate to a new city, or even if something as simple as their favorite flavor of ice cream was discontinued, this can cause them to become flustered and uneasy.

They like things exactly the way they are and see no need for things to be different. They will usually find ways to work around the newness, or it may take them some time to be fully comfortable with the change. Then, unfortunately, the cycle will repeat itself when new changes occur.

