Your employees who exhibit Steadiness as their most dominant factor are moderate-paced and accepting of the situations and people around them. As such, they prefer a more controlled and predictable environment that allows them to stay in the same position or role longer than other behavior patterns will.

They are motivated by cooperation and sincerity, can be limited by their own indecision, and worry about the loss of stability.

Other team members can help Steady employees by:

Being personable and amiable
Taking time to clarify instructions
Explaining what is expected of them
If an employee’s Steadiness is too intense, encourage them to see the good that can come from the freedom of expression and ability to change activities in a more flexible, dynamic, unstructured work environment. This encouragement may help them productively deal with any lack of stability they face.

When complemented by other factors, Steadiness takes on a new flavor. The greater the spread of any of these characteristics, the more pronounced they will be:


1. Patience (S>D)

Patience, the opposite of Self-Motivation, is marked by the following traits:

Low sense of urgency
A naturally submissive nature
Ability to deal with people
Taking time to think things through
Accepting change as a natural, slow and steady progression of life
If taken to an extreme, or left unchecked, Patience can be a weakness that causes the team member to have a difficult time making quick decisions or necessary changes, which can be especially problematic in leadership positions.


2. Thoughtfulness (S>I)

When Steadiness is more prevalent than Influence, the resulting behavior is called Thoughtfulness–the opposite of Enthusiasm. Acting thoughtfully means trusting the conscious mind rather than the instinct. Therefore, thoughtful people are diligent to think things through before speaking or acting.

Thoughtful individuals think logically, deal well with others and follow through on their responsibilities. How could there be a downside to this?

Unfortunately, the drive for Thoughtfulness can cause missed deadlines and mishandling of time constraints because of the deeply held desire to make the project or process perfect before delivery.

Consider placing Thoughtful individuals in roles that require careful planning but not as many quick deadlines and high-pressure decisions.


3. Persistence (S>C)

Steadiness that is greater than Conscientiousness is called Persistence. This is the tortoise–the one who is able to accomplish a goal others cannot simply because they determinedly trudge along to the finish line.

Persistence can be a powerful strength that enables an employee to work toward the same goal much longer than their co-workers and push past obstacles until the job is done.

The strength becomes a weakness when the employee must multitask, step out of the patterns of the status quo, or kill an unproductive project that is draining resources.

Persistent individuals may perform well in roles that have long-term goals in mind but do not produce immediate results. Persistent employees can thrive in job functions that might discourage others.