The S-style is typically the most patient and supportive of the four DISC styles. S types are calm, sincere and naturally laid back. Steadiness types enjoy working in a team environment and are eager to help and support others S types are loyal, and will work hard to maintain relationships with the people they have come to value. Since S-styles prefer stability and security, they tend to resist change and may need support when unexpected things occur. Their biggest fear is loss of stability. You could say that the S style motto is: “If it’s not broken, let’s not fix it.”
How S-Styles work with others

S-style’s are patient listeners and often most comfortable communicating in one-to-one situations. S types speak calmly and prefer to build trust and warmth through more meaningful conversations. S’s are extremely respectful of their co-workers’ space and will very rarely interrupt anyone to assert their ideas. Rarely angered or overly excited, S types work to maintain a peaceful and harmonious environment. The S’s favourite question is “How?”… such as “How are we going to do this?” and… “How does this impact us?”

How S-Styles make decisions
S-styles are prone to be cautious and deliberate when making decisions. This is because they always consider the impact of their decisions on others. S-styles will often talk things over with someone they trust before reaching a conclusion. They also look for precedents and will double check their information to ensure they make the correct decision.

How S-Styles act under pressure
Since they have a natural tendency to be accommodating and polite, under pressure S-styles can become too willing to help and give in to the demands of others. They frequently say “yes” too easily and put the needs of others’ ahead of their own. S-styles can also stubbornly hold on to the status quo to protect their sense of stability and security.

How S-Styles succeed
S-styles succeed by being persistent and maintaining a long-term perspective. While they are sometimes slower to initiate action, once they do, they are unstoppable. S types get things done and ensure tasks are completed well. S-styles execute their projects reliably and consistently to ensure a successful outcome.

