The S style has a great ability to bring stability to any situation. They’re able to provide reassurance to conversations,
often bringing a calm and collected atmosphere to those around them. They demonstrate a love for routine and
perseverance, greatly enjoying the day-to-day normalities of their job.
The S style will try their hardest to follow through with their initial planning—showing their dependable, loyal, and
methodical nature in every task. A great team player.
Strengths of the “S” Style
Team player
Friendly and supportive nature
Although the S style will appear to be very confident in their methodical approach, they can often have diiculties
when speaking up or dealing with signs of conflict. They will be keen to maintain the status quo—that which they are
familiar with.
They do not like to say no and are likely to overaccommodate rather than decline and risk any form of confrontation.
They tend to be resistant to change, as they seek to pursue their personal routine, potentially becoming demotivated
or even noncompliant if forced to change without good reason.
Limitations of the “S” Style
Overly accommodating
Tend to avoid change
Methodical approach
Routine driven
Strengths for the S style may include the following:
Limitations of the S style may include the following:
Rarely voice emotion or criticism
Avoidance of conflict
situations
How to approach the “S”style
Providing a safe environment to talk to those with the S style is the best idea. They prefer you to be logical, systematic, and wish to
be notified of any upcoming changes as early as possible so that they have time to reflect and adapt.
They will greatly appreciate your emphasis on their importance and when you oer sincere appreciation

Those who score highly in the Steadiness (S) style tend to be calmer and more patient than
any of the other styles. They’re cooperative and friendly, although this may appear a lot
less obvious than the I style.
As one of the more reserved styles, those showing high levels of Steadiness are very
routine-driven and rely on their own resources to complete tasks at hand.