The S personality often serves as the bridge between management and their co-workers because they are both sincere and dependable. They have the ability to understand all sides of a situation. They are great listeners, which makes them effective mediators.

S types are thoughtful and deliberate in their actions and aren’t likely to take big risks, no matter the payoff. They struggle when dealing with angry or unruly individuals, providing potentially negative feedback and often fail to be productive in emotionally charged environments.

S types are people-oriented and prefer a slower-paced work environment.
SI employees combine steadiness (S) with influence (I) to be team-oriented and supportive. They excel at bringing teams together to work effectively and efficiently. They tend to be very empathetic, great listeners and care about fellow team members’ feelings.

Because of these qualities, SI types work strongly in teams and can develop into great leaders. They are also good at working independently in roles that require them to collaborate with others, for example, technology consulting.

An IS combines influence (I) with steadiness (S). IS employees are intent listeners and empathetic. They put a high value on peace and harmony and want to make every situation successful. Their main goal is to promote others to help them grow in their abilities. They feel most content when interacting with those around them and often use their kindness to build strong connections.

However, their desire to be friends may hamper their abilities as authority figures. They don’t like routine or consistency and may have trouble making rational decisions or plans.

The SC personality combines steadiness (S) and conscientiousness (C). This results in a logical, pragmatic employee who wants to get tasks done correctly the first time. They may not necessarily be savvy with technology but they are technically proficient with the work that they are responsible for.

Professions that require a high level of meticulous, organized work suit SCs best. They particularly enjoy making plans, rules, and guidelines. Less social than some of the other DISC model personality types, SC types are often content with getting their work done and are described as even-tempered and reliable.
