S-style profiles are steady, calm and easy-going. They prefer interacting with people they know, since they are more reserved. S-style profiles prefer things to remain the same because they like stability and security. They view family and friends as very important. They will strongly defend their own group or team, sometimes emotionally. S-styles value fairness and justice.

S-styles are reliable and stable. They focus on cooperation, especially with the person in charge, to carry out the tasks. They want you to tell them what, when and how you want it done and they’ll be glad to do it. If you do not give an S-styles enough details, they may not get started because they don’t want to make mistakes. S-styles are more hesitant in their actions and decision-making. They want to consider others and focus on agreements.

Since S-styles prefer stability and security, they tend to resist change and need support with it. Their motto is “if it’s not broken, let’s not fix it.” When S-style profiles are under pressure they can become too accommodating. They will often say “yes” too easily. Their biggest fear is loss of stability. S-styles want a stable and secure environment. Change can be challenging for S-styles.

S-styles like to ask the “how” questions, “How are we going to do this?” or “How does this impact us?”

Is easy-going and appears calm.
Listens carefully; nods and goes along.
Appears thoughtful.
Let me think about it.
Likes own physical space.
Does not get easily excited.
Ponders alternatives, slow in making decisions.
Asks questions and inquires about the specifics.
Seems to have strong opinions but does not express them vocally.
Completely new ideas/things seem to make him/her uncomfortable.

Attributes are the words people use to describe the behavioral style of the s-style profile. It is not always how the person himself/herself would use to describe his/her own behavior. In addition, one certainly can adapt from one’s natural DISC style to different situations and roles.

Steady
Accepting
Caring
Permissive
Supportive
Pleasant
Sincere
Loyal
Warm
Reliable
Careful
Emotional
Patient
Calm
Amiable
Stable

The S-styles, like the D-styles also prefer one directional communication. However, they prefer interactions in one-on-one settings. They answer when asked, but otherwise, they prefer listening to speaking. S-profiles tend to speak calmly and amiably. S-profiles look to create trust during the interaction. They prefer to talk about topics that they have mastered. In addition, they will explain things calmly and thoroughly.

The S-style profile’s authority is based on experience, expertise and organizational status. They are comfortable, as leaders, in maintaining routines and stability. They are service- orientated. The S-style prefers to lead smaller teams. Their leadership style is participative.

