Developing others by offering plenty of verbal encouragement.
Placing a high priority on personal interactions and relationships.
Motivating other people to take action, even if they are nervous.
Optimistically evaluating the capabilities of others.
Bringing positive energy and warmth to a team.
Communicating frequently and regularly.
Using casual, friendly language with colleagues.
Seeking the experience and ideas of others when solving problems.

Make an effort to plan for more important tasks or decisions.
Avoid completely losing objectivity; if you feel you have, try to include someone who’s more objective when making important decisions.
Maintain realistic expectations by recognizing potential weaknesses or issues that may lead to significant problems.
Recognize when unpopular decisions are necessary for personal or team growth.

Frequently sharing verbal encouragement
Supporting their partner in personal endeavors
Maintaining open lines of communication

Working through problems with a logical, balanced mindset
Setting long-term relationship goals
Communicating thoughts or feelings that may cause conflict

Spend time getting to know them
Help brainstorm new, exciting ideas
Share in fun events outside of work
Neglect to ask important questions
Overcrowd those who’d prefer to work privately
Improperly use humor around more serious people
They are asked to get to know other coworkers.
Their boss is welcoming and encouraging of new ideas.
Their peers share an appreciation for their contributions.
Their direct reports are cooperative and hard-working.
They spend too much time alone.
Their boss pushes them to work on analytical, data-driven projects.
Their peers are very serious and focused solely on work.
Their direct reports are skeptical of their leadership.

Adapt to situations as they are.
Foster an environment that gives others a sense of belonging.
Get pleasure from spending time with others.
Adjust easily to a wide range of styles.
Avoid initiating conflict with others.

Measuring the capabilities of others in an optimistic way.
Communicating in an informal manner, mixing personal talk with business discussions.
Frequently communicating to keep others informed.
Approaching problem-solving from a personal or emotional angle.
Being friendly and welcoming with coworkers.
Involving people in discussions of how things will be done.
Considering the impact on other people when making decisions.
Getting guidance from others when trying to overcome challenges.

Make a list of the positive results that can come from a decision that may also negatively affect someone else. Sometimes, difficult decisions are necessary and beneficial, overall.
Hold your ground when communicating with an aggressive person; ask for help from others, when needed.
Though it may be difficult, practice delivering feedback in a clear, direct way. You might be surprised by positive responses.
Understand that some decisions may be unpopular, but are ultimately necessary for the growth of everyone involved.


Ability to see things from their partner’s point of view
Making an effort to know their partner deeply
Adjusting to new or unexpected situations

Addressing tense or stressful problems
Giving their partner plenty of space
Using logic to work through issues

Harmonizers tend to thrive in environments that allow them to build relationships with others through teamwork and collaboration. Harmonizers can help those who are more withdrawn and meticulous see the importance of connecting with others and pursuing new ideas. When working with another I-type, it is crucial for them to find a way to focus on the task at hand.

Enjoy establishing personal connections
Approach problems with a positive mindset
Are open to pursuing new ideas

Struggle to assertively lead a group, when necessary
Overwhelm or distract those trying to work independently
Avoid addressing a pressing issue for fear of causing conflict

They are asked to work closely with others to brainstorm ideas.
Their boss gives feedback sensitively and recognizes accomplishments.
Their peers frequently engage in small talk.
Their direct reports are cooperative and hard-working.

They need to interact in a formal, serious way.
Their boss requires them to follow strict procedures.
Their peers neglect to socialize with them.
Their direct reports frequently cause conflict.Show understanding towards other people.
Help and support other people in their goals.
Adapt to difficult situations.
Reduce conflict with others.
Easily adjust to someone else's style.

Promoting the benefits of teamwork and cooperation when motivating others.
Providing a calming, stabilizing presence for others in tough situations.
Building trusting relationships by providing predictability and rewarding loyalty.
Including others in sharing their experience when solving problems.
Resolving conflict between others with diplomacy and sensitivity.

Not being forceful or assertive when necessary.

Becoming uncomfortable when handling aggressive people.

Having trouble detaching and being productive in emotionally charged situations.

Displaying discomfort when managing people who actively resist close supervision.

Reacting emotionally instead of objectively to critical feedback.

Practice asserting yourself by giving direct, clear statements, which will help you learn to lead more impactfully.

Use your skills in patience to remain calm in the face of hostility, but also make an effort to be assertive and direct.

When possible, physically remove yourself from emotionally-charged situations; work on potential solutions in a different space.

Understand that some important, beneficial decisions will be unpopular, but very necessary.

Listening attentively to their partner
Desiring to build a deep, strong relationship
Constantly encouraging and helping their partner

Working through disagreements

Not taking conflict personally

Comfortably allowing their partner to take time to be alone

Counselors tend to thrive in peaceful, welcoming environments where they can take time to collaborate and learn more about other people. Counselors can help those who are more work-driven and autonomous understand the benefit of building genuine relationships with others. When working with another S-type, it is important that they learn to address and work through sources of conflict.

Remain open to others’ ideas
Enjoy taking the time to socialize
Avoid causing unnecessary conflict

Refuse to confront significant problems
Keep people on the team who aren’t right for the job
Struggle to keep certain messages clear and concise


They are asked to build loyalty through establishing personal relationships.

Their boss works to get to know them.

Their peers help maintain a calm, harmonious workplace.

Their direct reports ask for their help in working through problems.

They need to work alone.

Their boss requires them to produce and analyze results.

Their peers don’t invite them to events.

Their direct reports are withdrawn or overly independent.

Listen patiently to the needs and requests of others.
Work considerately and cooperatively with others.
Be uncomfortable around aggressive or hostile people.
Avoid overly competitive situations.
Take direction from a leader they trust.


Following up by checking back on a regular basis and being available to help.
Responding to questions with patience and understanding.
Asking for feedback at regular intervals.
Being attentive to the needs and concerns of other people.

Not being direct when communicating negative information.
Being too passive when assertiveness is necessary.
Avoiding confrontation and not giving feedback to others who may need it.
Delaying decisions involving interpersonal conflict.

Making an effort to directly share feedback with others when there’s an issue that needs to be addressed.
Practicing empathetic communication during times of conflict, remembering that problems cannot be resolved without a mutual understanding of the issue.
Learning to take charge of situations, when necessary; and making  sure people know they're in charge by intentionally asserting themselves in the decision making process.
Trying to make a plan on how they can adapt when a change occurs unexpectedly.

Being attentive to their partner’s needs.
Working to establish deep personal connections.
Maintaining a patient, encouraging attitude.

Sharing their complete, honest opinion, if contradictory to their partner’s.
Directly communicating their own needs.
Not taking feedback or judgement personally.

Supporters tend to thrive in predictable, calm, collaborative environments. They enjoy consistent, stable work that involves engaging with others. Supporters can help more analytical, reserved people understand the importance of communicating effectively with others and building strong, working relationships. When working with another S-type, it is important that they openly communicate problems so they can effectively work toward a solution.

Take the time to get to know them.
Have a warm and welcoming demeanor.
Avoid being overly critical or nit-picky.

Allow small problems to grow before addressing them.
Neglect to give important feedback to others.
Take constructive criticism too personally.

They are asked to help others with projects.
Their boss builds a relationship with them over time.
Their peers verbally appreciate the contributions they make to the team.
Their direct reports value their guidance.

They feel like they have nothing to offer the group.
Their boss is ungrateful for the work they do.
Their peers reject their help.
Their direct reports prioritize working efficiently and autonomously.

Work cooperatively with others.
Follow trusted leaders.
Be humble, unassuming, and reluctant to talk about their accomplishments.
Accommodate the requests others rather than risk conflict.
Seek predictability and consistency.

Approaching decision-making carefully.
Being highly organized and attentive to details.
Using low-risk solutions that have proven effective in the past.
Using a structured approach to developing others whenever possible.


Not bringing underlying conflict to the surface when necessary.
Delaying making decisions perceived as high-risk.
Hesitating to try solutions that have not been tested.
Spending too much time analyzing information before making a decision.

Address important issues directly; if necessary, write out your perspective and give the other person a chance to read it, so that the issue is clearly addressed.
Set a way to measure results of new solutions so you can easily tell if they are working or not.
Recognize that delaying risky decisions doesn’t make them go away; but resolving them early-on, you will prevent a lot of unnecessary stress.
Set a designated time for big decisions; if you’re unable to come to a conclusion by then, seek advice from someone you trust.

Planners can be focused, careful partners. When in a relationship with another steady personality, they should make an effort to be more openly communicative of their own perspectives.

Listening attentively to their partner
Patiently building long-term trust
Considering their partner’s feelings when making a decision

Addressing underlying conflict in a timely manner
Clearly conveying negative feelings
Trusting a new partner quickly

Sc personality types are most compatible with personalities that complement their easy-going and predictable personality, such as Id, S, or IS types.

Planners tend to thrive in routine-oriented, consistent environments. They love work that allows them to think through decisions, consider others, and organize information effectively. Planners can help more fast-paced, impulsive people consider others and make more well-thought-out decisions. When working with another S-type, they should openly address any issues they have to find an effective, mutually beneficial solution.

Show gratitude for their contributions to the workplace
Take the initiative to ask them about themselves
Play a stable and consistent role within the team

Feel unacknowledged or unappreciated
Dismiss others’ new ideas too quickly
Feel pushed to reveal too much personal information

They are asked to organize an event for the team.
Their boss shows appreciation for their help.
Their peers trust them enough to share personal information.
Their direct reports appreciate helpful feedback.

They have to work in disorder and chaos.
Their boss doesn’t know them personally.
Their peers don’t attend their organized events.
Their direct reports blatantly question their guidance.

Planners can be most effective in detecting risks and potential consequences of a decision, creating schedules of others, and providing supporting information. They are usually adept at managing change in a smooth, diplomatic way, making sure everyone is on the same page.

Give support and guidance to others.
Make others feel at ease.
Appreciate consistency and predictability.
Accommodate others rather than risk conflict.
Collaborate peacefully with a group.

Showing people how to do things in a step-by-step manner.
Using a predictable routine and established schedules.
Working with a specific plan for how things are going to be done.
Giving specific, detailed information when assigning work.

Putting off high-risk decisions for too long.
Hesitating to try solutions that have not been tested, but may be effective.
Deferring high-impact decisions to higher levels of authority or requiring sign-off.
Not being forceful or assertive when necessary.

Make an effort to try new solutions, especially for situations with a smaller impact.
Recognize when a decision is yours to make, without needing to seek approval from someone else.
Set a designated time for important decisions; if you’re unable to come to a conclusion by then, seek advice from someone you trust.
Give some people more space to work independently, without close monitoring.

Thoughtfully considering their partner’s perspective
Carefully building a strong, stable relationship
Desire to settle-down and make firm commitments

Making important decisions quickly
Confidently sharing their perspective in a disagreement
Trusting a more impulsive or spontaneous partner

Stabilizers tend to thrive in peaceful, welcoming environments that are less competitive and more collaborative. They enjoy stable work that allows them to follow a consistent routine. Stabilizers can help more spontaneous, outspoken people calmly think through their choices. When working with another S-type, it’s important that they avoid letting conflict grow by focusing on addressing problems quickly after they occur.

Value their input on decisions
Deliver specific, accurate feedback
Give them plenty of notice for meetings and events

Are pushed into situations that make them uncomfortable
Work alongside people who don’t follow-through on projects
Neglect to acknowledge and resolve a rapidly growing problem

They are asked to follow set rules, procedures, or routines.
Their boss clearly communicates expectations.
Their peers ask for their help planning something.
Their direct reports ask clear questions.

They have to make hasty decisions.
Their boss gives them multiple projects at a time.
Their peers invite them to last-minute plans.
Their direct reports make risky choices without their knowledge.


Take a private, independent approach to life.
Be sensitive to other peoples' phoniness, insincerity or arrogance.
Appreciate guidance and direction from others.
Separate emotions from decision-making.
Be serious, exacting and, sometimes, perfectionistic in their work.

Using an analytical approach to solving problems.
Considering many factors when making a decision.
Gathering information and assesses risk before making decisions.
Showing people how to do things in a step-by-step manner.
Maintaining quality by asking questions frequently.

Spending more time working alone when collaboration would be more effective.
Hesitating to try new solutions that have not been tested.
Spending too much time analyzing information before making a decision.
Overcomplicating solutions to simple problems.
Deferring high-impact decisions to higher levels of authority or requiring sign-off.
Expecting others to be as organized and attentive to detail as they are.

Recognize when a situation requires (or benefits from) collaboration; make an effort to work with others when necessary.
Write out problems and potential solutions to make sure you aren’t missing more simple ideas.
Learn to let go of others’ personal organization habits, unless it’s directly harming you in some way.
Make an effort to teach and advise more outgoing people in person, so they have the opportunity to discuss ideas and ask questions.

Logically working through difficult problems
Giving their partner a great deal of autonomy
Ability to find working solutions to personal issues

Editors can be level-headed, sincere partners. When in a relationship with another conscientious personality, it is important for them to remain open-minded and avoid withdrawing from others

Accepting and adjusting to new circumstances 
Understanding their partner’s point of view
Sharing their feelings openly with their partner

Cs personality types are most compatible with personalities that are able to complement their serious and introverted nature, such as Id, Si, or Is types.

Editors tend to thrive in subdued work environments that allow them plenty of space to work on their own. They enjoy having clear expectations and consistent schedules. Editors can help more idealistic, casual coworkers understand the value in making carefully considered choices. When working with another C-type, it’s important that they avoid getting stuck in the decision-making process or rejecting new ideas simply because they are risky.

Present carefully thought-out information
Focus on communicating in writing
Work in their own, separate space

Expect too much from their coworkers
Deliver negative feedback too harshly
Are guarded and closed-off from their coworkers

They are asked to solve a problem with careful thought and consideration.
Their boss gives them time to produce quality results.
Their peers communicate with them primarily through writing.
Their direct reports follow step-by-step instructions.

They have to frequently partake in large discussions.
Their boss offers a vague explanation of the goals.
Their peers interrupt or distract them.
Their direct reports need constant affirmation.


